[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Sherry Buffington--
I love Sherry Buffington's work.
One of the things she says
is that collective abundance
precedes individual abundance.
And I think it's a
very important thing
for us to understand-- that
if we're going to be abundant,
it's actually not something
that we do in isolation.
It's not something
that we do on our own.
Abundance is something
that we do together.
Abundance as an
individual is something
I can access only
because the community
society, or collective,
provides the opportunity for me
to access it.
>> So I was going through a
lot of my first experience
as an entrepreneur trying
to read lots of books,
trying to learn it all--
which is a little
bit like trying
to learn how to ride a
bicycle through books.
No matter how good
you think it might be,
if, at the end of the
day, you get on the bike
and you think you
can ride, you're
going to be surprised to
find yourself fall over.
Right?
It's like real, true
entrepreneurship
and understanding
how to harness flow
and the ideas of abundance,
you can't get from books.
I mean, books are helpful
to actually give you
some guideposts.
But really, at the
end of the day,
it's about going out there
and really practicing it--
and most importantly,
practicing it with others
so you're not having to figure
it all out for yourself.
>> Every day is a battle.
Every day, to find peace
is really a challenge,
because we live in chaos.
We live in a system.
So you've got to
surround yourself
with tools and resources that
can help you get through that.
>> I think any time
you're making a--
you're really going for it
and making a big change,
you're going to the next level,
the more you can get people
around you that
are like-thinkers
or who will support
your thinking,
the better off
you're going to be.
I don't know how
many people we've
seen who are ready
to make a big change,
and somebody in their
family will say something
to try to pull them back down.
>> So yeah, you're going
to have family members,
you're going to have friends,
you're going to have people
around you that love you
and tell you, keep that job.
So every day is a challenge.
We all have that.
>> What you'll find is that
people who really love you,
the people who really care about
you, are happy for your growth,
and they're happy for you
growing and becoming what
you're supposed to become.
And the relationship
can stay the same.
But there are some people that
can't allow that to happen.
It has nothing to do with you.
It has to do with them
not feeling like they
can accept the change.
>> Find people who can model
for you a way to get to that new
place.
>> We are communal people.
We're a communal species.
And if we don't come together
as a community, we've lost that.
We've lost that over the years.
And when you go into
small towns and you
find people who still
have a sense of community,
they're so much happier
than people in large cities
who've lost that connection.
And so it's understanding
that no man is an island--
literally--
and that we can't do
anything grand on our own.
There's just no way to do
And so we come out, we
connect with other people.
First we discover
who we are, and then
we discover who they are, and
we connect with the right people
in a community.
And the bigger the
community, the better.
>> I've been brought up in
places like Papua New Guinea.
I currently live in Bali,
where the communities there
are not born into scarcity.
There's a girl who's
in our village in Bali,
and most of the
villages-- they end up
in education within
the actual island,
and she had an opportunity
to go and travel to Europe.
And of course, you need
actual money to do that,
and actually to go
into college in Europe.
Everyone in the village
just chipped in,
and she had the
money, and she went.
It really wasn't an issue,
because at the end of the day,
everyone's supporting
each other.
So that's not an economy.
That's an ecology.
It's not a system.
It's an ecosystem.
>> There's no one who's
so individualistic that
they're doing this on an island.
You do want to get out
and find a new village
to be part of, a new
community to be part of.
It's not about having to do
it all yourself and make up
every role yourself.
It's really more about
finding the other people
on this planet whose
values resonate
better with what you're doing
than where you were before.
You totally need that
tribe when you go
through your moments of doubt.
It's the best thing
in the world to be
able to have somebody you can
Skype or call or email and say,
I'm freaking out.
And the person can say, dude,
I was freaking out yesterday.
Tell me about it.
Let's work it out.
>> Napoleon Hill, who wrote
"Think and Grow Rich," said,
a number of times, surround
yourself with people who are
thinking the way you
want to be thinking.
That way, that's where
the interaction will go.
That'll elevate you.
If you're around
people who are thinking
a lot of limiting thoughts
or negative thoughts
or complaining
thoughts, that's where
it's going to take your energy.
We know, now, with mirror
neurons that there's even
a scientific basis for that.
So surround yourself with
people whose beliefs are
going to take you somewhere.
>> I think everything in
life has seasons and cycles,
and it may be that people who
were very dear to you at one
point of your life,
who are good people,
have elements of their
personality or their thinking
that are toxic, and you didn't
see it when you were in that
same toxicity.
You didn't see how
toxic that was.
You see this in relationships
that are just bona
fide abusive.
Children love their
abusive parents,
and that love will
always be there.
I think that there's nothing
wrong with setting boundaries.
And it doesn't mean you
cut people out of your life
who might be good
people, but it also
doesn't mean that you spend
all your time with them either.
And I think a lot of us--
maybe it's a scenario with early
childhood friends, high school
friends, or our families--
we might still
love those people.
It doesn't mean that you have
to buy into their values.
You may not buy
into their values.
You may still love
them, still honor them.
It doesn't mean that
everything that they say
has to be the way that
you live your life.
>> And whether it be drinking,
whether it be smoking,
whether it be a
toxic relationship,
whether it be certain foods--
whatever-- I've had to
distance myself from elements
that weaken my spirit,
and that weaken
my resolve, because I think
conviction is a tricky thing.
We can say be strong,
but the truth is--
for me, anyway--
I'm not strong--
not all the time.
I stumble.
I am vulnerable.
I have my times when I'm
down and I'm susceptible.
That's why I have
to distance myself.
Not because there's anything
wrong with those people,
not because I judge them,
but because I know that when
I'm feeling vulnerable
and down and susceptible,
they can influence me, and
I won't be able to fight it.
>> I think the people around
you can have a huge influence
on your perception of yourself.
And whether that's your family
or someone that you're dating,
we take--
unfortunately, at
times-- our cues
from how people perceive us.
And I grew up as the
youngest in a family,
so my opinions were dismissed.
And I learned to ask for
advice, partly because I
trust other people's
opinions over my own,
and partly as a way I
think, in retrospect,
to gain some greater
connection to them, some love,
because if they were helping
me, they were engaged with me.
And I started not
trusting my own thoughts
and my own opinions.
And that's a very
tricky place to get to,
because you're a slippery
slope, then, of always asking
for advice and
taking, as I said,
your cues from how
people perceive you.
>> Growing up in an
East Indian family--
[? Gudrapi ?] Indian family--
a lot of my self-worth
imprints were
related to what
education I had, what
circles I'm circulating in,
what degrees I've gotten,
what Kudos I'm getting
from community.
And I started recognizing
that after a while,
those things are
going to fall away.
And why should I care about
what other people are thinking?
We're tribal beings.
We're animalistic,
also, in nature.
Spiritual, but also, we have an
animal side-- a pack mentality.
We wish to be accepted
into the pack.
And that remnant that's left in
our being, in our psychology,
in our neurology, our cellular
level, this feeling of we
must gain acceptance-- it's
not just a mental thing.
If we don't have acceptance
with our core group in society,
then we'll be the reject.
And the rejects, in nature, die.
>> One of the things that we
find as we develop ourselves,
as we become more full
and more functional,
is that there are people in our
environment that just don't fit
anymore.
They're not healthy
to keep those people
in the environment.
If they're family members,
that makes it difficult.
You don't want to distance
yourself from them physically,
but you can step
away psychologically.
You can step away emotionally.
You can step into that same
wild, crazy, dysfunctional
dynamic as an observer, and
learn so much from those people
without having to completely
eliminate them from your life
if they're family.
But there are also
friends that are toxic.
There are people that just
don't need to be in that system
anymore.
And so with that expansion,
part of that is pruning--
pruning away what
doesn't work anymore.
And as we do that and we
start to build the community,
then we recognize
that there are levels.
And one level is me-- what
I bring to the community.
And the other level's what
the community brings to me,
and what we, as a collective
whole, bring to the world,
because that's that
generative force, ultimately.
That's that larger, bigger than
me, bigger than life energy
that we can all tap into for
the benefit of everybody.
And we ultimately get there,
but there's a pruning process,
sometimes, before we
can get to that space.
>> Unfortunately, that
mechanism is still running in us
and twisting distorting our
true individual soul's desire
for abundance and its
creation of abundance.
That's specific to self.
So what I've
recognized is is that
once I start to
relax the importance
that I used to place on what
other people think about me--
I just dialed down
the importance.
What will people who are
watching this think about me?
What will my friends
think about me?
What will my parents think
about me, my aunts, my uncles,
those I love and I value?
Perhaps that I may even
go beyond them in income.
I may go beyond them
in life experiences
and freedom-gaining.
To me, it's imperative
to start relaxing
all our self-reflection.
Huh?
Am I doing right?
Do you agree with me?
Huh?
Are you approving of this?
Even if it's subtle,
that mechanism--
although it was good
for thousands of years--
is no longer valid.
It's an old thing
we're operating.
For me, to help reduce that,
just lower the importance--
on all of it.
>> There are always going
to be people who are going
to criticize, or have a better
idea of how things should work,
and tell you their way.
When you're living a life of
following your authentic self
and your intuition,
you can realize
that you don't have to listen
to other people's opinions,
but you also don't have to even
tell them what you're doing.
You really want to hold
and protect your space
so that when you know
that so-and-so always
criticizes everything you say,
well, you can not tell them.
You don't have to tell
them what you're doing.
them your creative--
your new, beautiful idea
that's coming about.
Hold it.
Protect it.
Keep it safe.
You don't have to share
that with anyone else.
>> As I go on my
journey in life,
I encounter different people.
I encounter different groups.
I may become a part of
a group for a while,
and they may influence me,
and I may allow that influence
to happen.
But I still have
to know, who am I?
What do I want?
What am I true to?
What do I believe?
So that that's
something that I can
take with me to my next
place, or my next adventure,
or my next journey, my next
group that I interact with.
And I'm in control of that.
I'm in control of
what I believe.
what I want to become.
I choose.
I don't always choose right, or
there's no perfection about it.
It's a journey.
But I'm choosing who to be, how
to show up, what to believe.
>> I have made a conscious
choice I would not go anywhere
near anyone that had negative
energies that I thought would
weaken me, or had beliefs that
would undermine my beliefs,
or get into discussions or
arguments about my beliefs with
anyone, because it might
interrupt my own belief
in the beliefs I was adopting,
and I did that for quite
a while.
>> It is the best feeling in
the world, and we all have it.
That's one of the great myths--
is that somehow, if you
follow your own path,
you're never going to freak out.
You're going to
freak out, and you're
going to need somebody
to help you out.
You're going to need
somebody's hand to hold.
And that is not something you
should feel bad or sad about.
It's part of the journey.
>> And so if you're out there
giving, giving, giving, giving,
giving, giving, it may not come
back from the person you gave
to, or the people you gave to.
But it certainly will come
back from people, places
that you've never even imagined.
And so we all need other
people, whether it's
for financial reasons,
for emotional reasons,
for knowledge reasons, for
guidance-- or whatever it is.
We all need other people.
And they all need us as well.
And if we have this
healthy relationship
with giving as much
as we can, we'll
receive more than we ever
thought humanly possible.
And my belief is
that we're all here
to help each other, that we're
all here to give each other
and to love each other,
to care for each other.
>> One awesome
thing about today,
about the world we're in now,
is a lot more people are taking
this leap-- whatever
you want to call it,
choosing your
self-directed path--
a lot more people are coming
up with ways to do it.
So there are communities.
A lot of them are online.
Sometimes you might get
lucky and find something
you can do face-to-face.
There are masterminds.
There are communities
online, and communities
you can connect with
other people who are
doing this crazy thing, too.
And find one of them.
They are out there.
>> Well, the ecology around you,
the environment in which you
operate, is critical--
for all kinds of reasons,
from logistics, to mindset.
So as you move in
a new direction,
you want to make sure to
bring around you and attract
to yourself the people who
are going to support you
in all kinds of ways,
and to make sure
that they see not necessarily
your goal or your vision,
because they may not have it.
Only you might be the
person to see that.
But they believe in you, and
they encourage you forward.
>> The intersection of my life
with my first mentors I believe
was a result of me searching
for what else is there out there
other than my current reality?
And as soon as I
was ready to seek,
question an answer
to a question,
that reality brought
itself to me.
And although I was
afraid, although I
had to move 500 kilometers,
although I didn't have
a nickel in my
pocket, I just had
to trust that he
knew more than I did.
>> I actually remember a moment
when I knew I had found the new
group of people, the new tribe
that could show me the values
and the beliefs
of this new life.
I was at a conference.
It was a blogging conference
called [INAUDIBLE],,
which was a wonderful small
conference here in the States.
And I do remember a
palpable feeling of calm
when I realized there
were other people who
lived this weird way I thought
I might be able to live.
>> It's essential--
it's essential--
that you surround yourself
with people who support
your good way of thinking.
So they don't have
to think exactly
like you do, but are
supportive of who you are
and how it is that you
express your authentic self.
Now, they may express
their authentic self
completely differently.
That's fine.
But they support you.
These are people who hold
you, and honor you, and take
care of really seeing the
truth about who you are.
Those are the people
that you want to be with.
you want in your circle.
>> I think the first thing is to
recognize that anything you are
struggling with is something
that somebody else is
struggling with.
Sometimes it's just as simple
as standing up and saying,
this is how I feel.
This is what's
making me sad today.
This is what's hurting me today.
This is what's hurting
my feelings today,
or this is what's making
me doubt myself today.
If we can just share
even that vulnerability,
that can be a tremendous
source of strength.
It's a source of strength
for other people,
but it's a source
of strength for you
too, because when
you get a voice, then
it takes its rightful place.
And it stops being a
big, scary demon that's
controlling your
life, and it just
becomes a very normal part
of being a human being.
And it's normal, and it's
natural, and it's OK.
>> We can be present
to each other.
We can be supportive
of each other.
We can refrain from
judging each other.
We can be the best version
of ourselves that we can be.
We can be compassionate
to each other.
We can love each other.
But I can't fix you,
and you can't fix me.
And furthermore, there's
nothing wrong with you,
and there's nothing
wrong with me.
>> I've learned that coaching
and masterminding are
so critical, because you need
somebody who's going to call
you out, and somebody who's
going to help you get through
those changes.
>> I wouldn't want to give the
impression that I quit my job,
and then immediately I was
this evolved, successful,
stress-free, happy person,
because I was not--
at all.
I was stressed out of my mind.
I was very fearful.
I was the sole breadwinner
for my household,
and I was very frightened.
And being frightened
made it very hard
for me to make smart
decisions, and it also
made it very hard for people
to want to do business with me.
So I had to do a lot of
work, that first year,
on a lot of mindset issues,
on a lot of cultivating
a sense of curiosity
instead of a sense of terror
and being completely up
shit creek without a paddle.
So yeah, I had a lot of
work to do that year.
And I was fortunate.
I had a wonderful
coach I was working
with who helped me relax
when I tightened up,
and who helped me see a bigger
picture when I was looking
at a very tiny slice of
something that was freaking me
out.
So I was very fortunate
to have that person.
>> We had one group who met
weekly for an entire year
on the phone, and the whole
focus of the phone call was
to identify these limiting
beliefs that they all had,
and to change, and then
to work with each other.
And it was incredible to
see how every single one
of these people's lives changed
in terms of them attracting
more wealth into
their lives, having
happier family relationships,
and also having
higher self-esteem and feeling
better about themselves.
So it's a good idea
to form a mastermind,
or get with other people who
are like-minded like you,
and really work to create
positive change together.
>> If you happen to not be
living in a collective--
in a society, in a social
class, in a social grouping,
in a company--
anywhere that you feel isn't
conducive to your pursuit
of abundance in your life,
you do have a choice.
You don't have to be a victim.
You can choose abundant
actions in your life.
No matter what your
circumstances are,
you can start
choosing abundance.
And that choosing of
abundance has a ripple effect.
It will affect the
people around you.
It may take time.
It took a long time for women
to get the right to vote.
It took a long time for women to
start to be recognized equally
in the workforce.
We still haven't
got equal pay, OK?
It's not over.
But if you behave concurrently,
if you act as if it's already
like that, you
will affect change
in consciousness of
the people around you.
And that's the best
that you can do.
If you want abundance,
be abundant.
If you want freedom, be free.
If you want liberation,
be liberated.
Be that which you seek,
and it won't be wasted.
It's never wasted.
>> For me, the best way out of
that has always been to teach
something small, to show
yourself that you actually are
somebody who has something to
value by teaching something
small to another person.
Giving some small measure
of help to somebody else,
you can show yourself that
actually, you do have something
to offer, and you
do have something
to contribute to this world,
and to your fellow human being.
>> I always think that
Gandhi is a great example.
This is someone who was
living within a very
oppressive, violent society--
with respect to the social
group that he belonged to--
and he chose his own truth.
He chose peace.
He chose what he
believed always.
No matter what they threw
at him, he chose his truth,
and it changed everything.
One person sticking to their
truth, one person choosing
peace, choosing abundance in
that sense, changed everything.